README.rst, before:

pretalx |logo|
==============

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/travis/pretalx/pretalx.svg
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/pretalx/pretalx
   :alt: Continuous integration

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/readthedocs/pretalx.svg
   :target: https://docs.pretalx.org/en/latest/
   :alt: Documentation

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/pretalx/pretalx.svg?colorB=1c4a3b
   :target: https://codecov.io/gh/pretalx/pretalx
   :alt: Coverage

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/pretalx.svg?colorB=1c4a3b
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pretalx
   :alt: PyPI

`pretalx` provides a conference planning tool – read our extensive `feature
list`_ in our docs to get a better idea of what `pretalx` can do for you,
but it probably involves everything you'll need to curate submissions and
contents for a conference with up to 100 talks.

You can host pretalx yourself, as detailed in our `administrator documentation`_,
or use our public instance at `pretalx.org`_.

Project status
--------------
`pretalx` is under `active development`_. It is production ready and has already
been used in several conferences. It supports everything required for talk
submission, speaker communication, and scheduling. You can see our supported
features in the `feature list`_ in our documentation, and our planned features
in our open issues_.

`pretalx` has regular releases – you can download the latest releases with
their respective changelogs on GitHub_ or install pretalx via PyPI_.

Contributing
------------
If you want to contribute to pretalx, please choose an issue and comment on it
if anything is unclear. If you find bugs you want to fix yourself, please also
open an issue for documentation purposes.
Check our `developer documentation`_ on how to set up pretalx.

License
-------
We publish `pretalx` under the terms of the Apache 2 License. See the LICENSE
file for further information.

The primary maintainer of this project is rixx_.
See the CONTRIBUTORS file for a list of all the awesome folks who contributed
to this project.


.. |logo| image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pretalx/pretalx/master/assets/favicon-32x32.png
   :alt: pretalx logo
   :target: https://pretalx.org
.. _issues: https://github.com/pretalx/pretalx/issues/
.. _rixx: https://github.com/rixx
.. _feature list: https://pretalx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/features.html
.. _developer documentation: https://pretalx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/developer/index.html
.. _administrator documentation: https://pretalx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/administrator/index.html
.. _pretalx.org: https://pretalx.org/
.. _active development: https://github.com/pretalx/pretalx/pulse
.. _GitHub: https://github.com/pretalx/pretalx/release/
.. _PyPI: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pretalx

Commit message:

Update README with conferences using pretalx

README.rst, after:

pretalx |logo|
==============

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/travis/pretalx/pretalx.svg
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/pretalx/pretalx
   :alt: Continuous integration

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/readthedocs/pretalx.svg
   :target: https://docs.pretalx.org/en/latest/
   :alt: Documentation

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/pretalx/pretalx.svg?colorB=1c4a3b
   :target: https://codecov.io/gh/pretalx/pretalx
   :alt: Coverage

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/pretalx.svg?colorB=1c4a3b
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pretalx
   :alt: PyPI

`pretalx` provides a conference planning tool – read our extensive `feature
list`_ in our docs to get a better idea of what `pretalx` can do for you,
but it probably involves everything you'll need to curate submissions and
contents for a conference with up to 100 talks.

You can host pretalx yourself, as detailed in our `administrator documentation`_,
or use our public instance at `pretalx.org`_.

Project status
--------------
`pretalx` is under `active development`_. It supports everything required for
talk submission, speaker communication, and scheduling. You can see our
supported features in the `feature list`_ in our documentation, and our planned
features in our open issues_.
`pretalx` has regular releases – you can download the latest releases with
their respective changelogs on GitHub_ or install pretalx via PyPI_.

Previous conferences using pretalx include:

- `GPN 2018`_
- `EasterHegg 2018`_
- `TROOPERS 2018`_
- `MRMCD 2017`_

Note
  If you use pretalx for your event, please tell us about it!

Contributing
------------
If you want to contribute to pretalx, please choose an issue and comment on it
if anything is unclear. If you find bugs you want to fix yourself, please also
open an issue for documentation purposes.
Check our `developer documentation`_ on how to set up pretalx.

License
-------
We publish `pretalx` under the terms of the Apache 2 License. See the LICENSE
file for further information.

The primary maintainer of this project is rixx_.
See the CONTRIBUTORS file for a list of all the awesome folks who contributed
to this project.


.. |logo| image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pretalx/pretalx/master/assets/favicon-32x32.png
   :alt: pretalx logo
   :target: https://pretalx.org
.. _issues: https://github.com/pretalx/pretalx/issues/
.. _rixx: https://github.com/rixx
.. _feature list: https://pretalx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/features.html
.. _developer documentation: https://pretalx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/developer/index.html
.. _administrator documentation: https://pretalx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/administrator/index.html
.. _pretalx.org: https://pretalx.org/
.. _active development: https://github.com/pretalx/pretalx/pulse
.. _GitHub: https://github.com/pretalx/pretalx/release/
.. _PyPI: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pretalx

.. _MRMCD 2017: https://talks.mrmcd.net/2017/schedule/
.. _TROOPERS 2018: https://cfp.ernw-insight.de/tr18/cfp
.. _EasterHegg 2018: https://pretalx.eh18.easterhegg.eu/eh18/schedule/
.. _GPN 2018: https://pretalx.entropia.de/gpn18/
